[MWAN] Palo Alto tutorial (#9531)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: content/magic-wan/third-party/palo-alto.md

##### `Cloudflare_L3_zone`

| Name                   | Option                  | Value                          |
| ---------------------- | ----------------------- | ------------------------------ |
| `Cloudflare_L3_zone`   | Log setting             | _None_                         |
|                        | Type                    | _Layer3_                       |
|                        | Interfaces              | **tunnel.1** <br> **tunnel.2** |
|                        | Zone Protection Profile | _None_                         |

![The Palo Alto interface showing the Cloudflare_L3_Zone](/images/magic-wan/third-party/palo-alto/panw_zones/03_cloudflare_zone.png)
![The Palo Alto interface showing the Tunnel Interfaces overview section](/images/magic-wan/third-party/palo-alto/panw_zones/04_zones_overview.png)

#### Set up via command line

You can also use the command line to associate zones and interfaces:

```bash
set zone Trust_L3_Zone network layer3 ethernet1/1
set zone Untrust_L3_Zone network layer3 ethernet1/2
set zone Cloudflare_L3_Zone network layer3 [ tunnel.1 tunnel.2 ]
```

### Apply Changes

> This would be a good time to save and commit the configuration changes made thus far. Once complete, make sure you test basic connectivity to and from the firewall.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This would be a good time to save and commit the configuration changes made so far. Once complete, make sure you test basic connectivity to and from the firewall.

```

##### Syntax

```bash
test vpn ipsec-sa tunnel [value]
```

##### Example for `CF_Magic_WAN_IPsec_01`

```bash
admin@panvm03> test vpn ipsec-sa tunnel CF_Magic_WAN_IPsec_01

Start time: Jun.05 00:37:50
Initiate 1 IPsec SA for tunnel CF_Magic_WAN_IPsec_01.
```

##### Example for `CF_Magic_WAN_IPsec_02`

```bash
admin@panvm03> test vpn ipsec-sa tunnel CF_Magic_WAN_IPsec_02

Start time: Jun.05 00:38:52
Initiate 1 IPsec SA for tunnel CF_Magic_WAN_IPsec_02.
```

Repeat these commands for the respective tunnel to ensure the IPsec SA(s) display as expected.

#### Ping Remote Virtual Tunnel interfaces

Use ping to source traffic from the IP address of the Virtual Tunnel interface on Palo Alto Networks Next-Generation Firewall (NGFW) to the IP address of the Virtual Tunnel Interface on the Cloudflare side of the IPsec tunnel.

> {{<Aside type="note">}}The interface address is defined with a `/31` netmask. There have been isolated cases where NGFW exhibited issues with using ping to verify connectivity between the local and remote Virtual Tunnel interfaces. This behavior can vary depending on the version of PAN-OS installed on the firewall. If you encounter this issue, either switch to a `/30` netmask, or contact Palo Alto Networks support for assistance.{{</Aside>}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{<Aside type="note">}}The interface address is defined with a `/31` netmask. There have been isolated cases where NGFW exhibited issues when using ping to verify connectivity between the local and remote Virtual Tunnel interfaces. This behavior can vary depending on the version of PAN-OS installed on the firewall. If you encounter this issue, either switch to a `/30` netmask, or contact Palo Alto Networks support for assistance.{{</Aside>}}

```

set network virtual-router default routing-table ip static-route Magic_WAN_VLAN0020_Tun01 interface tunnel.1
set network virtual-router default routing-table ip static-route Magic_WAN_VLAN0020_Tun01 metric 10
set network virtual-router default routing-table ip static-route Magic_WAN_VLAN0020_Tun01 destination VLAN0020_10-1-20-0--24
set network virtual-router default routing-table ip static-route Magic_WAN_VLAN0020_Tun01 route-table unicast
set network virtual-router default routing-table ip static-route Magic_WAN_VLAN0020_Tun02 nexthop ip-address CF_MWAN_IPsec_VTI_02_Remote
set network virtual-router default routing-table ip static-route Magic_WAN_VLAN0020_Tun02 bfd profile None
set network virtual-router default routing-table ip static-route Magic_WAN_VLAN0020_Tun02 interface tunnel.2
set network virtual-router default routing-table ip static-route Magic_WAN_VLAN0020_Tun02 metric 11
set network virtual-router default routing-table ip static-route Magic_WAN_VLAN0020_Tun02 destination VLAN0020_10-1-20-0--24
set network virtual-router default routing-table ip static-route Magic_WAN_VLAN0020_Tun02 route-table unicast
```

### Magic health checks

> Cloudflare crafts ICMP probes which are sent through the IPsec tunnels from random servers across Cloudflare's global Anycast network. These ICMP probes are unique in that an ICMP reply packet is sent (as opposed to an ICMP Request).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cloudflare crafts ICMP probes which are sent through the IPsec tunnels from random servers across Cloudflare's global Anycast network. These ICMP probes are unique because an ICMP reply packet is sent (as opposed to an ICMP Request).

```

4. Traffic originating from `CF_Health_Check_Anycast_02` (`172.64.240.254`) should ingress and egress interface tunnel.2.

![Bidirectional Health Check Logging - tunnel.2](/images/magic-wan/third-party/palo-alto/panw_logging/04_logging_tunnel_hc_tun02.png)

If the traffic is not ingressing/egressing the same interface, you likely have an issue with the policy-based forwarding rule(s) not matching.

### Security Policies - Production Traffic

As mentioned earlier, this tutorial includes examples for two different use-cases:

- **Magic WAN**: permit traffic between two or more locations with [RFC-1918](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc1918) private non-routable address space.
- **Magic WAN with Cloudflare Zero Trust (Gateway egress)**: same as Magic WAN with the addition of outbound Internet access from Magic WAN protected sites egressing the Cloudflare edge network.

#### Magic WAN only

Rules must be defined to facilitate traffic from the trust network to the Magic WAN protected sites. While it may be possible to define one rule for traffic in both directions, this example includes two rules:

> - From Trust to Magic WAN protected sites

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- From Trust to Magic WAN protected sites.

```

> - From Magic WAN protected sites to Trust

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- From Magic WAN protected sites to Trust.

```
